The Germans started coming in to surrender. So we
went on up to Paris. We'd done all we could. And
stayed in the house of one of those requisitioned,
beautiful gods there. An ancient place that they
requisitioned back then. And on the night the war
was declared to be over, oh hell, I might as well
tell the story. An old friend was commanding a
fighter outfit. came in with his Red Cross girl,
and he didn't have any place to sleep, so I said,
well, you can have my place, and if you take me
across town to the Ritz, which is a commandeered
hotel, I could get us a place there. In fact, I
called them there, and they sure could. Well, we
started across town, and Paris was just like that,
and to make a long story short, it was a long time
getting there, because We had to, we got crowded
and finally a big truck came by and we just crept
behind it and went way around and got me out. Next
morning, another old friend showed up at
breakfast and asked me, and I said, well, I'm going
home as quick as I can. I haven't got any way to go
yet. He said, hell, come on with me. And he was
stationed at Casablanca and I had to be 17 up there,
one of those messed up ones. And took me down there
and got me out on the first match flight back to the
stage for Washington. And as I went to go up the
ramp, the sergeant stopped me and said I didn't
have the right shots or something like that. And I
looked at him and said, sergeant, you don't think
that's going to keep me off this airplane? I looked
like what I was, I guess. And he said, no, sir. And so
I ended up in Washington. And I guess it was around 2
o'clock in the morning. And a young woman got me a
hotel room,
and I went to it and got a little sleep until in the
morning. See, I had to do this thing with
the OSS, which was responsible for the other end of
the pipeline. Right, the OSS. Yeah. So they wanted
to debrief you. I had to. There's no way about it.
And I had to write a report for the air staff. Okay. I
wanted to get that done as quick as I could. So when I
finished the day, I went back to the hotel, got down
to Muscovy's and started writing it out. And the
hotel clerk called me and says, why aren't you out
of that room? And I said, God damn, I registered in
last night. And he said, you can't keep it. We've
got to go. You've got to go right now. I said, I
haven't got any place to go. And he said, well,
you've got to get out of here. This was a hero's
welcome. I didn't know any of this. I'd been gone so
long I didn't know that Washington was jammed full
of people. So I said well let me try to find a room and
I called and there was not a room. And this I didn't
want to do but I had to. I called an old friend and
asked him if I could stay with him. So I did. That was
what you might call a year's welcome. Now I don't
mean to say that people didn't weren't very good to
me, they were. But I didn't know, for example,
about rationing. I suppose it had it, but I never
had to pay attention to it. Well, this man and his
wife, old friends, asked some women, friends of
people that I'd seen in Europe, they hadn't got
back yet, over to dinner. Meantime, somebody had
handed me a handful of ration coupons and God knows
what. tickets. I didn't even know what they were.
So when I mentioned that, these ladies, and they
grabbed them and took them. They needed them. They
needed them bad. I didn't know any of that. So there
was a good deal of getting used to for me. But other
than that, it was all right. Now what did you write
in your OSS report?
Well, Some of it from back then was secret, not
much. The one thing that I hated to do, I had to do,
was write a very derogatory report on a man who had
not performed the duty that he had been ordered to
perform. And the upshot of that was that it ended up
in a file As you may know, there is a personnel file
that's open at large, in board. There's another
file which isn't, and that's where it ended up. And
I didn't even know because I didn't care. I'd done
what I had to do. I hated to do it because I'd known
this man well. He'd worked for me in the past. But he
didn't perform well in the POW camp? It was
something that I don't want to go in further with.
He's dead too, I might add, but Years later, an old
friend that I had in Washington who was a
specialist in military court cases talked to me
about it because he'd been hired to defend this man
in a case he'd been kicked out of the service. Oh,
later he was kicked out of the service? And that
report was used and that was not what brought him
before the being kicked out. It was another
action.
But that report was brought out in the case, and the
man was kicked out. It was an appeal case, one of
those final appeal cases, which my friend, the
lawyer, was defending. Well, was this report
discussing the situation in prison, or in the POW
camp? Oh, I don't want to go into it. It was just one
of those things that you have to do that you hate to
do. No, not the camp, not with this man, not dealing
with a man. I'm talking about the other part of the
report. Well, the other part had to do really with
the interests. It was partly an interrogation by
the people who are on this end of the pipeline. And
it was a tenuous, tortuous pipeline, but
nevertheless it was there and I was on one end of it.
And you see, I had to tell them what it was like from
that end. The things, the really important things
that we tried to get back either didn't get back or
were ignored.
Some of the other things did, and perhaps they did a
little good, not much, I'm sure. But a really
useful intelligence
from our point of view. Not about us, but about what
the Air Force could do. It wasn't worthwhile. Now,
can you explain this pipeline? I don't think I
should. It isn't as though it was quite secret
then, and perhaps it is now, I don't know. But I
don't think it should. I don't see any purpose to be
served by it. And if it were necessary to use a gun,
something which I think is highly unlikely, you
really wouldn't want to discuss too much. Now when
you came back from the service, or from the war, you
were a colonel. Were you thinking about getting
out of the military? A lot of people at this time, of
course, there was a rapid demobilization. Were
you thinking about retiring from the military and
becoming an engineer, or were you thinking about
finishing out and having a full career? Not at that
time. I did not too long after that. I had an
opportunity to make some money. I made it, too, if
I'd been out and done it. What happened in that
instance was that the Korean War came on and I just
couldn't, in due conscience, I couldn't leave
then. And then the next time, well, be explicit
about it, the guy that I furnished the paper to
said, oh shit, tore it up and threw it in the
wastebasket. And I said, well, I'll do it later.
And it turns out that my duty It was pleasant. Well
what duty did you have right after you came back?
You were assigned as Deputy Personnel 8 Air
Training Command. Was this in Washington? No, no.
This was first at Fort Worth and then in Barksdale.
We moved the headquarters into Barksdale. It's
the headquarters which is now in San Antonio. And
you were a colonel at the time, and were you, many
people, of course, had temporary rank at this
time, and they were lowered in rank. Did this
happen to you? Oh, no. No, this did happen to a good
many of my contemporaries. Yeah. All that I can
remember were made again later. Yeah. No. No,
there's a peculiarity in it. I was serving in what
they call general slots, table organization
slots. From that time until the time I was
promoted, which time I was serving in a colonel
slot. This is an anomaly in the service. And it
doesn't happen too often, but it happens. It did to
me anyway.
I'm just saying that those particular things
don't mean a hell of a lot. Okay, so were you at the
Air Training Command then until how long? When did
you go to the Air War College? Oh, it's when it first
opened up. I guess that would be in the summer of 46,
wouldn't it be? 47.
I guess that's when you're 47. And what did you
think of going back to school at the Air War
College? I enjoyed it.
Was it valuable? Was it a valuable experience? I
don't like to answer the question that directly.
See, I spent two years in school when I was there.
What I learned out of it probably could have been
learned in about a year.
Some of what I learned, for example, was applied in
the National War College that I'd already had.
It's hard to evaluate military education because
part of it is an association with people who have
had different experiences than your own. you
learn from them rather than the curriculum. And I
think it can be done much quicker. It's pretty
goddamn expensive, too. Oh, yes, it is expensive.
It definitely is. And after your two years there,
you were assigned to the Office for Atomic Energy.
This must have been about 1949 then? Yeah, I guess
so. What did you think about the Air Force
splitting from the Army? That happened while I was
in the school. It is an inevitable.
See, people who were in my type of interest were
particularly interested in that. We had to depend
on the Army in an ordinance for our armament.
People in the Army couldn't know less about any
subject than the requirements of air armament.
They didn't know and they didn't care and we were a
goddamn nuisance to them. We also were
responsible, the quartermaster was responsible
for furnishing certain items to us. Our mission
was so different to anything that they'd ever been
familiar with that that was a serious handicap.
Having said that, and of course I can illustrate it
with personal details, but I don't need to. I want
to point out that there are certain things that the
Army does very well, and does better than the Air
Force, which we probably should have left with the
Army instead of taking along. For example? Burial
service, post exchanges, commissaries,
there are others. certain of the engineering
fields. But we had to do it the way it was done. And
honestly, it was a must. A lot of people thought it
was, you know, gung-ho, wild beyond the deal. It
really wasn't. It was the fact that we had to have
more knowledgeable people in the supporting
functions than we could get in the Army. And that is
a simple thing to say, but it was goddamn difficult
to work with. And that's the why of it. The whole
boycott was like everything else like that. It was
a compromise. The Navy didn't want it done. The
Army didn't want it done. And in consequence, the
triple service deal was a compromise. Not a very
good one, I might add. But it works. Now during the
same time, not only did President Truman set up the
Joint Chiefs of Staff and the three different
branches, but he also started integrating the
armed forces, which was carried out from 1947
through the Korean War. What was your opinion of
that?
Oh, this is balderdash, largely.
Let me talk about the best side of it first. When I
went from the Pentagon up to Sandia Base, that was
an integrated command. The commander was an Army
officer. I was the Air Force deputy and operations
chief. Navy deputy who was my deputy in
operations. Nevertheless, I was responsible for
the Air Force guys, the Navy guy, and so forth. This
worked very well, but you don't know why. Why?
There wasn't a man in it that wasn't specifically
selected for it. And during that time that I was
there, and I won't go into them because some of them
are still secret, but When I put the finger on
somebody to do something, and it might be in the
Pacific, it might be in Europe, it might be in
Kentucky, I didn't have to care whether he was Navy
or Air Force or Army. He was competent. It's the
only job I've ever had in my life. I can say that. So
that's the good side of it. But when you just throw
them together, you don't get it. That was unique
because this was a new thing. It was highly secret.
People thought it wasn't, but they thought it was
hugely complicated and all that crap. So when you
got a Navy guy, he was the tops. When you got an Air
Force guy, he wasn't. When you got an Army guy, he
wasn't. That's integration at its best. And this
was out, this is when you were with the Office of
Atomic Energy. No, that's when I was in the Special
Weapons Corps. Okay, Special Weapons out at
Sandia, out in New Mexico. Albuquerque. Yeah, in
Albuquerque. Now, what were some of the special
weapons that you were working on at that time?
Well, the bomb of course. Yeah, and you were
attempting to, as far as the bomb were doing what
with it? Attempting to put it in guns? Oh, hell no.
Oh well, I have to back off.
No. Different types of warheads? What you were
doing,
see you had to take care of them. Had to have them
ready for specifically the Air Force and mostly
until a lesser degree but an appreciable degree
the Navy. And at At the same time doing that, you had
to do your goddamnedest to see that you had a better
one coming on. And equally important, that the
service which was going to use it would be able to
use it. And the main problem in all that was that it
was so goddamned secret. Some of the people that
should know things couldn't. Some of the people
who should know things wouldn't.
I'll illustrate that in one brief. When LeMay came
back from Europe to command SAG and move it to
Omaha, I was in the Pentagon office and we made a
specific impulsive effort to get him in that
office to convince him that he had to have certain
information which was under the peculiar
clearance system. They had a clearance for this,
clearance for that, clearance for that,
clearance for that, and then there was a Q's
clearance system, which was separate and all
that. Well, obviously, May had the highest
clearance for Air Force data, top secret, but that
was totally inadequate for this particular work
under the law at that time. So when we got to the nut
cutting and wanted him to accept a stockpile
clearance, he wouldn't do it. There were only 13
people at the time that had one, He wouldn't do it.
And he explained why he wouldn't do it.
He might have to lead a raid. He might feel like he
had to. And if he had a stockpile clearance, he
couldn't. And so he wasn't going to do it. I'm
talking about a situation that's long since
passed. Yeah. But it illustrates the problem of
the time.
If he didn't know what the stockpile was, he didn't
really know how many bombs he had to deal with. That
targeting system, which I worked on that too,
if you didn't know that, you didn't really know
whether your targeting system was worth a
goddamn. It's as simple as that. But to eliminate
those roadblocks which were built into the law,
The first Atomic Energy Act was a real son of a bitch
of a job. And it certainly was not finished by the
time I left, not by a hell of a lot. But it's
infinitely better now, infinitely better.
We're getting into that philosophical area that I
mentioned earlier where the technology is a
given. The technology that we were dealing with in
my opinion, was relatively simple. Now, the
scientific studies that led into it were not. They
were, for me, difficult, very difficult. And when
I say that, I want you to know that, well,
Oppenheimer in the beginning and later Teller and
Gamow were familiars in our office. Sometimes I
understood what they were talking about,
sometimes I didn't. But the technology of the
weapons system, I understood that because it was
simple. But the problems were outside of that. The
problems were what you might call oversimplified
political and administrative. Now during this
time, or a little bit later, Oppenheimer and
Teller split over the issue of the hydrogen bomb.
And you were there at the time? It was one of the
country's great tragedies. Oh, would you
explain?
I hate to do it. It was a tragedy. It was a tragedy of
the first order.
Let me I don't want to do it, but I'll make one
illustration. When I was in this office in the
Pentagon, a man in the Joint Chiefs who had been
assigned to the job called me in because, after
all, I'd known him for years, too, and he knew my
background, and asked me specifically whether or
not we should design the H-bomb. I said, no, we
shouldn't, but we've got to. Now, that sounds like
a contradiction, doesn't it? It isn't. That
illustrates the tragedy of Oppenheimer Teller.
What kind of men were those two? There's been a lot
written about them by historians, and I just like,
you knew them, and I like your personal view. Both
great men. Unquestionably great men.
And it's just so very tragic that this had to
happen. And I don't want to go into the details of
it, but I will say this, that a true blood-blooded,
everlasting horse's ass was the cause of it. It
didn't have to happen, but it did.
That's not in any of the history books, and I'm not
going to put it in any of them either. Who are you
referring to? Senator McCarthy? Oh, no. No, no.
The man I'm talking about is Horst. That's one of
the military service. That ain't to say that the
military doesn't produce a lot of them. Who is this
man? He's dead. So is Oppenheimer. I don't want to
talk about it anymore. You can get the book.
There's one recently published on Oppenheimer. I
don't think I ought to. I'll tell you who can tell
you if he will. And his poise may be utterly
different to mine. That's Al. I've talked to him
about it. He's a lot closer to it than I was.
I just... I totally deplore it. I don't know what Al
thinks about it. I've never discussed it with him.
In fact, I never discussed anything much with him.
I doubt that he even remembers me. I doubt it.
No, I don't see any point in expressing myself on
this. If you didn't have that goddamn thing on, I
wouldn't mind it. But I just don't believe that I
should. Now,
let's talk about when the Korean War erupted,
1950. Where were you at that time? Boy, that's one I
won't forget. I don't know whether you want this in
the history or not, but it still amuses me.
I was out in San Diego.
the several factors involved in this particular
undertaking. But the fact of the matter was that
the production in a certain area of the deal I was
working on was more than really needed. And there
was a way, and it's You've heard of it if you don't
know about it. It's a breeder system in which you
could get in effect something for nothing and if
you needed more you could save yourself a lot of
trouble. And it's self-evident if you had all the
information, that's the key, that the production
was more than we needed. I drew up a study on that.
Didn't do it all by myself. Had a better man on it
than I am on that kind of thing. And as was customary
and needed back then, taped the goddamn thing to my
stubble, put my clothes on, put the pistol,
obligatory pistol. You couldn't go without it if
you had that kind of material with you. And that was
pretty, look, you can't get that pistol like that
in there. If you need it in the heart. Got in my
airplane and started to Washington. Well, we had a
station over in Kentucky. It was an Air Force
station, and I was anywhere responsible for it,
although I did not command it. The commander met me
at the airplane. I was just going to do a cursory
look and fuel up and go on. And he said the North
Koreans had invaded. I said, well, so what else is
new? I'd known they'd do that for a long time. I
thought everybody did. I still don't understand.
Everybody that was familiar with that place and
knew it. All the people that I'd known that had come
back from there knew it. Nevertheless, I said I
went on into Washington. The Pentagon was like
that. I ditched
my study when I saw that it was probably without
question that you could get anybody's attention
at a place where they burned things like that and
started on home. back to Albuquerque because that
particular operation totally fruitless still
is, I expect, because of other things. Now,
I stopped in at Maxwell and had an old friend down
there who was assigned to plans and he was
absolutely ecstatic. He said, this is the chance
to prove air power. We're going to save that
peninsula with air power. Somebody, my God, and
God I don't know who it was, got to Truman with the
same notion. And Truman publicly said, we're
going to do it with sea and air power. That is
absolute bullshit. You couldn't do it that way.
You can't do it that way. You'll never be able to do
it that way. Somehow, someway, Truman accepted
it. That's how the damn thing started, from my
experience. Later on I went out there, but that's
another part of the question you asked. Well,
later on you went out there in what capacity?
Again, on a special mission type deal. A special
mission doing what? We had, we were... designing a
different kind of weapon for a different purpose.
And the problem for the part of San Diego base that I
was responsible for was to make sure that we had
organized and trained the men who would have to
take care of that particular weapon for that
particular mission. Okay, they were having a big
war over there. This is a pretty good place to go
find out. In addition, I had two other missions.
One was to target to see if the bombs we had would be
of use in that situation. That's as simple as I can
put the problem. The answer to that was no.
And the other one was a real divvy. The Army wanted a
shell. You know, they later got one. that would
fire out of a great big cannon, they got that too.
And to find out from the people who were under the
gun, in other words the army people out there,
whether that was a good idea, and it wasn't, but we
got it anyway. That's what it was. Why do you say
that the atomic gun idea is not a good idea? Oh look,
the thing couldn't shoot, I'm not talking about a
missile, I'm talking about a gun. Yeah, I know.
goddamn thing at best could only shoot 15 miles and
anybody that's ever been in
a situation in combat, fluid situation, knows
damn well you can't do it. You can't do that.
Look, let me go one step further on that. They got a
couple of those things in Europe and One day I was
stationed over there and I had to go into Germany on
some kind of a long term business. I didn't fly
because I didn't want to leave the airplane over
there and I didn't, we were tied up so I drove. I
guess I wanted to carve out some personal use,
something like that. And here's this goddamn
cannon to shoot the thing that was falling from
here to the road, the street in front, over in the
ditch. Ten days later, when I came back, it was
still there. Why? They couldn't get it out. You
can't use anything like that in a fluid situation.
And the men... Just couldn't move it. No. They
wouldn't dare to put the thing where they could use
it. And the men, the combat... men that I talked to
about it just laughed and they didn't even want to
talk to me about it. They thought it was so
ridiculous that anyone would have that idea. I
don't know how you got me off on that subject. I just
asked you about it. Oh, that's not the only stupid
billion dollar weapon we've got. Now you said
before when we were talking about the Pentagon
that you took your report from Sandia base out to
the Pentagon when the Korean War started. And then
you made the comment that I took it to the Pentagon
and they burnt it like they burned a lot of other
things. Now do they burn your report? Oh yeah,
sure. Is it typical behavior of the Pentagon to
burn reports instead of file them? Didn't you ever
hear of a burn basket? Let me illustrate that with
one more personal deal. I had an office far into the
dead end hall. And the scoop was that the material
that came over from the Atomic Energy Commission
building across the river to my place of business,
part of it would come on one bridge and part on the
other. And they'd come under the outer office and
the guy would sign it in to me. He couldn't see it.
and we'd get into my office and we'd put it
together. I had a young woman secretary and she was
highly comfortable. She was as cleared as I was.
She wasn't cleared for numbers, but she was
cleared for all she needed to be cleared for. All
right. My duty was to take this true stuff and build
it into something that could be used in the Air
Staff without compromising the security of it.
And when we were through with it, we had to go
through a procedure to burn it. I had a big, big safe
in the office you could walk in. It was a great big
damn thing and heavy and you couldn't get in it,
except that girl and I. All right, the security
officer came to me one day, and said that he'd been
asked to account for a paper, which, in his
records, was in my office. It wasn't.
And I didn't sign for these things. The system was
different. The poor bastard that was the security
officer signed for them. He didn't even know what I
did with them.
I told the young lady we had to have it. not to secure
him, but to get back to the other side of the river,
if necessary, or proof of burn it. There's a way to
do that, numbers. She didn't know either. And she
said, oh, God damn. And went to the place in this big
safe where she cut up things for the burn basket.
And she started scratching through it. and found a
little piece of paper about that big. This sounds
stupid. It's a true story. This was Friday
afternoon. Okay, it's in there. I wasn't very good
at it, but all day Saturday and all day Sunday, she
came in and sat on her duff on the floor,
fortunately it was carpeted, and fiddled with
those goddamn little bitty pieces of paper until
she put them all together, and there is the paper.
So we cleared it. Well, is it common practice for
the military to be burning official U.S.
government documents? Oh, you have to sometimes.
Well, as a historian, that's somewhat disturbing
to me. It shouldn't be. They don't burn enough of
them. Especially now that this law has changed.
Look. This particular study that I mentioned,
which got us off on this, was a dead issue.
Because this thing that happened in Korea started
a whole new thing.
I don't want to overdo this.
What I guess I was trying to illustrate is that the
secrecy was a handicap. Let me illustrate one more
time, twice as a matter of fact. Broder, who wrote
The Ultimate Weapon, wasn't cleared for all those
things, but nevertheless he's pretty good. Who's
this now? David Broder, Brody, Broder. Broder?
Yeah. David Broder? Journalist? The journalist,
David Broder? Yes, yes. Okay, David is Broder. At
that time, he was working, and when I first knew
him, he was working at the War College. Yeah. And
there's a story about that, but it doesn't fit, so
I'll tell it. We discussed this without going into
the numbers. He's strongly suspected, but he's
one pretty smart man and well-informed. That
might be true. people like him. What might be true?
That we were overproducing.
Overproducing what? Overproducing the
component of the weapon for its needs. And that
there probably was a better way to go about it. But
when you get war historia all over The signals of
the ball game changed right then.
I'll tell you one more thing about this. Well, what
happened to Broder? You were going to tell me about
him. Well, frankly, I don't know. I'd like to know.
I haven't seen him or heard of him in God knows how
long. No, you were telling me that he got the
feeling that we were overproducing too many
atomic bombs, and then what happened? The only
reason I mention him is that this man is a pretty
talented writer. Yeah. And when he came out to
Sandia with this on his mind, and he had a clearance
for a certain amount of information, I didn't talk
to him about what I was going to do or had to do, but he
was very helpful because he can write and I can't. I
can write simple declarative sentences, but I'm
not very good at a long dissertation type thing,
and he is. I owed him something out of it. So how did
he help you? I don't know whether he knew that I was
doing it. I don't think he did. I don't know. I don't
think so. I don't think he could have. My boss did
out there, and he agreed with it. You mean letting
him see documents? Oh, no, I didn't. No, not about
that. I couldn't. Or telling him about... I'm
talking about secrecy. Uh-huh. No, I couldn't do
that. Look, I said... But he wanted some
information. There were only 13 people in the
whole goddamn United States that had the key
information. And I mean by key information was
without that, Jesus, there are a lot of these
things that you couldn't explain.
This is no longer true. This is long since past.
Everybody that I know of that needs to know these
things now knows them. Now what was considered the
key information at that time? How many bombs we
had? That type of information? Or what was it? That
type of information.
Jesus Christ There were some other features of it
that had to do with simple technology that it would
be hard to believe could get so screwed up.
We built them.
I don't want to talk about it.
You built a what? The Air Force built some
equipment that Didn't even fit
what it had to do because of this. This is a story
that's closed book. It's long since past. It's no
longer true. But let me illustrate it with one more
story. George Gamow, teller incidentally, if you
don't know, is
a Hungarian. Gamow is a Russian. born and educated
in Russia. He got out of Russia, and that's a story
in itself. Gamow was not cleared for anything. I
was in this job in the Pentagon, and we were trying
to establish an archives, as it were, a place where
the information was that we could put in it, that
people needed to know. That was at
Wright-Patterson.
This key subject, hell no, you couldn't put that in
there. You couldn't put it anywhere. But
nevertheless, that which had to do with the
technology of the weapon system, yes, we could,
and we were doing it. Okay, one morning I showed up
for work in the Pentagon, and here in my mail was a
dispatch from Wright Patterson. Say, isn't this
top secret? And I opened it, and it was a little
brochure written by Gamow. You're goddamn right
it was top secret. He'd written it straight out of
his head. He wasn't cleared for anything. But it
was just as top secret as anything could be. But as
far as he was concerned at the time, it was a theory
about how you built the bomb. That illustrates the
difference. You see, the scientists knew goddamn
well that this wasn't top secret, but other people
didn't, specifically the Congress when they
passed the first law. When Eisenhower came into
office, not immediately, but within time, he got
the law changed and it was infinitely better. But
I'm talking about the original Atomic Energy Act
and the and the secrecy that was written into that
act. One of the things that I think military people
should be sensitive to, at least I always felt it
should be, is law. Don't give a damn whether you
agree with it or not, you've got to obey it. If you
find a regulation, then God knows you'll
proliferate. You can bend or break one of them, but
if it's solidly built on a log, you don't. You've
got to change the law. That's the nature of
government in the United States. That's what the
military has to do in order to preserve itself.
It's got to stay out of these things that the
politicians do. Now tell me about this one trip
that you made to Korea.
Why did you go there? Why did they send you? I wanted
to go, of course. What was the objective of the
mission? What I stated,
first we had our training mission. Next, what I was
specifically assigned out of Washington, it had
to do with the bomb and the usefulness of it in that
situation. And finally that thing that they hung
on to just before I was about to leave was whether or
not the Army weapon was justified. What did you
think about Douglas MacArthur's idea of using the
bomb north of the Yalo River?